The history of long-distance trade is long, and it has had many highs and many lows. But the fact that we know about an old sea route across a remote section of the Atlantic Ocean makes it exciting, and it's possible, even today—in fact, there are efforts underway to try and make it so.

Back in October, one company in particular, Air Cargo Express, proposed taking over a portion of that ocean route. Air Cargo Express (ACE) runs a network of aircraft in the Pacific, Eastern and U.S. Midwest, and now it's also interested in an old air route in the western Pacific Ocean between Asia and the U.S. But ACE had its reservations about starting the new route—a lot of reservations, it turns out.

"They're a new entrant. They've had a lot of challenges because they're new," said John Nevin, senior director of U.S. policy development for the International Air Transport Association (IATA) who was part of the group of companies involved in the route. The group started out, the IATA explains, as a way of sharing routes between U.S. and Asia, but now it has expanded its mission to include routes that cross international borders. "Their focus is really on trade between the United States and China and the rest of Asia."

ACE announced in November a tentative deal to take over the route, but there's a lot of ground to cover, and they're still trying to finalize details. The biggest question is how much the route will cost. The current proposal calls for ACE to use the existing American Aerospace Martin P-8 Orion aircraft for the trans-Pacific flight, but to run it at a much higher rate of speed than it would run on U.S. airlines. "They're taking a lot more risks than we took. They're not flying for us," said Nevin.

ACE won't be the only company to try and take over the flight route. The U.S. government says China's China Eastern Airlines is interested in the route. And as The Next Web reported, Singapore Airlines told U.S. officials last year that they might try to take the route once ACE is completed. But the U.S., with its massive trade surplus with China—the largest single export market in the world—just might be the most likely recipient of the route. This will come as a welcome surprise to American consumers, who aren't used to buying high-priced airplane tickets to Asia.

"What we don't have now is a direct high-speed connection between Asia and the United States," said Nevin.

"We may be a step or two behind," added Nevin, "but there's an opportunity here. And we're excited about it." As he speaks, he's gazing at a model of China and the United States that he drew himself. It illustrates the connection between two countries that are only about 150 miles apart. "To have an airline come forward and say, 'We want to give this route to a company that's already there'—I think it will open a lot of doors," he said.

And if the U.S. does want to take over and run the route, it'd be a good time to do it. Right now, most of the demand for Air Cargo Express' services comes mostly from China. When the first phase of the route starts, he's expecting U.S. demand to rise with it. And if the route becomes a more lucrative way to take business, then ACE's new routes might get canceled. "With the right competition, it becomes cheaper for the airlines if the demand is there to justify it," said Nevin. They just might be the right competition.

"I think it's a terrific opportunity," Nevin said. "That's the one thing you need to be successful in the marketplace, is you need competition."

The world trade organization is now considering a proposal brought by a group of companies, but some in the industry say it has a hard time selling it because it doesn't meet some key principles.

The world trade organization just wrapped up its first meeting today to debate the proposal to have China's China Eastern take over the route from Air Cargo Express. The idea is to link the Pacific Ocean to Asia using a route that hasn't been used by either company at any point in the air. The hope is that, because of the large number of passengers and freight that would pass over this route from Asia to the West, that the price will be cheaper to take on U.S. airlines.

But as it turns out, the plan doesn't come at a great cost for U.S. airlines: U.S. airlines would only have to maintain service to Asia-Pacific destinations that currently fly to the U.S. from the U.S. In other words, it would be easier and cheaper to do because the airlines are already flying through the area, unlike they would be if they had to add the route from the U.S. directly and then connect there from Asian cities. But because of that, a group of U.S. airlines—American Airlines, American Eagle, Delta Air Lines, Southwest Airlines—opposed the proposal.

"We need to have a clear connection to the United States and to the Asia market through the West so American travelers—our customers—can travel more easily and effectively to Asia and beyond" via the existing airlines, American Airlines told the World Trade Organization's Aviation Committee. "At the same time, we must not jeopardize the viability of the existing and important U.S. regional airline markets." The rest of the opposition came from Southwest Airlines and Japan's All Nippon Airways, although United Continental (USW), which has operations in China and Hong Kong, was in favor of the idea.

The U.S. government is now considering the proposal. "We support this proposal to further open travel in Asia and provide passengers and freight greater access to the United States," the USW representatives wrote in a letter to the WTO's Aviation Committee, arguing that competition would be better for everyone. However, many are concerned the new route would cause a strain on U.S. carriers in the market. "This new route could threaten America's ability to maintain an open trade system