When people first started keeping written records, they used to have records at the back and middle of a table in the middle of a long table. Now you might have to move.
I guess it is because of the "tat" on the side.  So if I am right, it could be a book that was written in a way that was a diary for people in a certain place/year/time.
Or it could very well be the diary of someone who is now dead and this is a record of their death.  Or a family record of a historical event that happened in their lifetime.  There are a great many reasons a person might write in a book.  Many of which have absolutely nothing to do with religion or atheism.
This is probably true.  Either way, it's a neat idea, and I like where this thread is headed.
What was the first one?
"Atheism is a religion but not the other way around"
I have no doubt that a number of people in this thread didn't know it was a religion, and they are not going to be happy to learn about your post.  But that doesn't mean they're wrong, or that atheism is a religion any more than calling a religion a religion is wrong.
I understand that.  It's just hard for me to remember how this stuff worked with the first post though.
I was talking in a completely tongue in cheek way.  We know atheists often have a hard time taking atheism seriously.  That's why a comment like that is so much fun.
It was more the way you phrased it.    It's like when someone says "that's the way I was raised".  I'm not saying it's wrong, but it means nothing to me.  You were referring to one person.  I was referring to an entire movement.
I was referring to the entire movement.  It had nothing to do with my comment.
How?
Because I know people that I know aren't like "oh I just believe in nothing".  There is a reason why this is the way it is.
I was agreeing with you.
Oh, then I was agreeing with you too.  And I was agreeing that I don't know how I would classify it, because it is quite clear that if you know that you know it is the movement that is the movement that is atheism.  Just like in the first post of the thread, it has nothing to do with the "tat" on the side.  I was referring to this because at first I had this whole "Atheism is a religion but not the other way around" idea and you said I'm wrong, which made me think twice about it.
It doesn't have anything to do with "The Tat" being that there isn't one and it's something personal, I really have no idea how you got that idea from my comment.  Also, I didn't find it confusing.   When I was writing my comment, it made sense to me.  You can't change facts that you don't acknowledge.
You can't change facts that you don't acknowledge.    So when you say something to me, and you say something that you know isn't true because I know you know it isn't true, you aren't "changing facts that you don't acknowledge"?
I know I am not changing facts.  I have nothing to change unless you think there is something to change that doesn't exist.  You don't have to be a god to know something isn't true.  It's all about personal, situational experiences.  I don't have anyone that is a god to know that it isn't true.  Not sure what the deal is.  Also, where did I say I think atheism is a religion?  There is only one belief in atheism.  It's called "atheism".
So, when I make a statement, and I say something that I know isn't true because I know it isn't true, you are not changing facts because I know you know it isn't true?
That didn't answer my question.
So, when I make a statement, and I say something that I know isn't true because I know it isn't true, you are not changing facts because I know you know it isn't true?
So, when I say, "Atheism is a religion, but not the other way around," you are not changing facts because I know that it isn't true?  There must be a misunderstanding.  No, you are changing facts.  I know it isn't true, and you know it isn't true.  Why can't you deal with that?
I wasn't the one who made the statement "Atheism is a religion" I merely corrected the OP's statement.